# Heart-Disease-Detection-using-DesicionTree
Heart Disease/Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) is one of the main causes of death around the world. In the United States CVD was found to be the leading cause of death among men and women across all ethnic groups. This is a huge problem, new methods for not just treating the illness but also for quick and early detection need to be developed to reduce the numbers of CVD deaths per year. In this paper, a classification model will be used to differentiate from a group of patients who have and do not have CVD. The classification model that will be used is called Decision Tree Classification, which is a model that focuses on nodes and splits to separate out the parameters into checkpoints that it runs the data through. Using this classifier individuals can run large amounts of data rather quickly based on the compact nature of Decision Trees. Using this method, doctors or patients can input their metrics that are required for the dataset parameters and this project will output with around 90% accuracy whether an individual has heart disease. This would be a valuable tool that can be used in the medical setting which can help doctors very quickly and efficiently reach conclusions about their patients regarding cardiovascular health.
## Datasets
The dataset that was utilized is “Heart Disease UCI'' from Kaggle. This dataset contains 76 attributes. However, only 14 of the experimental subsets were utilized in this dataset, which consists of 303 individual’s data . The following attributes are included in this dataset: age, sex, chest pain type (4 values), resting blood pressure, serum cholesterol (mg/dl), fasting blood sugar (>120 mg/dl), resting electrocardiographic results (values 0,1,2), maximum heart rate achieved, exercise induced angina, oldpeak (ST depression included by exercise relative to rest), the slope of the peak exercise ST segment, number of major vessels (0-3) colored by fluoroscopy, thal (3 is normal, 6 is fixed defect, and 7 is reversible defect), and our truth table (target: 1 or 0). 
## File
### Main
Python 3.0 was used to classify the “Heart Disease UCI” dataset. We also utilized the libraries of NumPy, Pandas, Scikit learn (Sklearn), and Matplotlib to program the algorithm and to plot the decision tree. First, the excel file of the dataset was read into an IDE. Then, the dataset was separated into two different arrays, labels which are the “target”, and the other array are the features that are compared to the labels to construct the decision tree. Decision Tree Classifier was used within the Sklearn library to classify the data. GridsearchCV was utilized to optimize the parameters in Decision Tree 4 Classifier to obtain a higher accuracy of the model. Overall, the accuracy of Decision Tree Classifier led to a subpar accuracy than what was expected. This may have been due to the lack of data given in the dataset. Therefore, random forest classifiers were used to optimize the decision tree classifier. Grid search was also used to optimize Random Forest Classifier, and that gave us a more desirable outcome for the accuracy of the model.
